Stefan jum/zagreb (#418)
unikraft/docs: content/hackathons/2024-05-zagreb/index.mdx

| 12:30-14:00    | Lunch                                                                                                |
| 14:00-16:00    | Hackathon: Work on Project                                                                           |
| 16:00-18:00    | Judging and Award Ceremony                                                                           |

### Deploying Cloud Applications using KraftCloud

If you did not create an account already, signup [here](https://console.kraft.cloud/signup) and get a `token`.
You will be using that in the following sessions.

Once you have a token, follow the steps [here](http://docs.kraft.cloud/quickstart/) to deploy your first unikernel.

> If everything went well, deploy more applications following the links [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If everything went well, deploy more applications following the tasks [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=0).
Go through them orderly and aim to complete all items until the `Extra` section.
If you have extra time on your hands, go through the `Extra` section as well.
```

### Behind the Scenes: Using KraftKit to Operate Unikraft Applications

In the previous session, you deployed application using KraftCloud.

> Now you will build and run some unikernels locally, looking at what `kraft cloud` does behind the scenes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you will build and run Unikraft-based application locally.
With this, you will get a better look at what `kraft cloud` does behind the scenes.
```

Follow the steps [here](https://unikraft.org/guides/using-the-app-catalog) and bring the cloud to your machine.

> After you are done with all of them, take a look to some more applications, following the links [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=89673838).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you are done with all of them, take a look to some more applications, following the tasks [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=89673838).
Go through them orderly and aim to complete all items until the `Extra` section.
If you have extra time on your hands, go through the `Extra` section as well.
```

### Using Docker and Docker-based Filesystems

In order to bring your own application on KraftCloud, you need to build a minimal required filesystem.

> We do that using `docker`, then we will run the application using `kraft`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do that using `docker`.
This is useful both to understand what is happening behind the scenes and to have a test environment for your application.
In case there are issues with KraftCloud / KraftKit, you can use Docker to see if everything is in the right place and to assist in debugging.

```

Follow the steps [here](https://unikraft.org/docs/contributing/adding-to-the-app-catalog) (only the ones under `Redis`) to see how you can port a new application on top of Unikraft.

> Mark the items as completed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=1549350059).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mark the items as completed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=1549350059).
Go through them orderly and aim to complete all items until the `Extra` section.
If you have extra time on your hands, go through the `Extra` section as well.
```

### Debugging Unikraft / KraftCloud Applications

When porting new applications, you can run into issues both on the Docker build and on the Unikraft runtime.
To debug the issues, you can follow the instructions [here](https://docs.kraft.cloud/guides/features/debugging/).

> Mark the items as completed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=680791461).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a hands-on experience with debugging by following the items [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=680791461).
```

After you are done with all of them, take a look to some more applications, following the links [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=89673838).

### Using Docker and Docker-based Filesystems

In order to bring your own application on KraftCloud, you need to build a minimal required filesystem.
We do that using `docker`, then we will run the application using `kraft`.
Follow the steps [here](https://unikraft.org/docs/contributing/adding-to-the-app-catalog) (only the ones under `Redis`) to see how you can port a new application on top of Unikraft.
Mark the items as completed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=1549350059).

### Debugging Unikraft / KraftCloud Applications

When porting new applications, you can run into issues both on the Docker build and on the Unikraft runtime.
To debug the issues, you can follow the instructions [here](https://docs.kraft.cloud/guides/features/debugging/).
Mark the items as completed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1exnUCaUvDx_FldLOz9HNnGpbmaafMYVL_0Tu6A6AFL4/edit#gid=680791461).

### Hackathon

> For the hackathon, please create teams of 2-3 people, choose a project in any kind of language you like, using any applications you like, and deploy it on KraftCloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the hackathon, please create teams of 2-3 people, and create your very own cloud-native application to run on KraftCloud.
Think of a cool application you've been waiting for a while to implement.
Use your preferred programming language (supported by KraftCloud), employ any frameworks or existing software components as required, and then deploy it on KraftCloud.
```

> At the and of the hackathon, you should make a PR in the [`catalog`](https://github.com/unikraft/catalog) repository with your work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

At the and of the hackathon, you should make a PR in the [KraftCloud `examples` repository](https://github.com/kraftcloud/examples) with your work.
```
